# Portfolio
This is my ML portfolio for job applications where you can see 5 examples of my work and brief descriptions for each. All of them are coded using Python on a Linux machine. 

## Anonymisation using blurring techniques
  This is a project I did for my signal processing class where the task was to study anything related to the techniques we learned. I chose to look at blurring techniques as a tool for anonymisation and to use Google Lens as a model (since it wasn't a machine learning class so I didn't want to focus too much on building a model). This taught me how to use APIs and to integrate them in a project and also how to design an experiment (what elements to vary, how to make the comparisons etc.). It's a simple, yet creative approach to the task and it yielded interesting results about which blurring methods are best suited for the task (meaning they conceal a person's identity while keeping the rest of the photo as true to the original as possible. 
## Heart disease diagnostic tool
  This is an assignment for my machine learning class where we were given patient data and we had to determine what their diagnosis was. It's a project that showcases the whole process from analyzing the data, preparing it and then testing multiple models and comparing their performance.
## Gameplay image classification
  This is a hackathon task that was assigned by the organizers. We were asked to pick 2 games and train a model on gameplay images from them to determine from which game it's from. This was my first interaction with ML and it was a fun challenge. Ultimately we also used a color filter to help the model out since we purposefully chose games with vastly different saturation. 
## Trash image classification
  Also a hackathon challenge, this time the task being much more broad: creating something to help people live more sustainably that can be integrated in a banking app. We created such an app that allows users to scan trash to find where they should be recycled and earn points to use in affiliated stores. I developed the ML model that does the classification (which is the only thing included here).
## Non invasive room occupancy detection 
  This is my dissertation project. Its subject is determining the exact number of individuals in a room using only non invasive sensors (as opposed to a lot of other related works that use video/audio recordings) in order to best optimize energy consumption. I'm using a publically available dataset called HPDMobile (available here: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-021-01055-x) which contained temperatures, humidities, luminance, CO2 and organic compound levels and that I enhanced adding the outside temperature, humidity and light. After experimenting with known models for time series (CNNs, LSTMs, XGBoost) i realized they all perform admirably as long as the people's routines don't vary much, but for edge cases they're not reliable. This is a problem since ML methods are supposed to help identify those situations, otherwise a simple static program could be used. Because of this I created a more complex architecture that used XGBoost, LSTM and a Gradient Boosting Classifier (which was trained on a dataset that oversampled edge cases) that was more robust and twice as good at predicting edge case occupancy. I also experimented with fine tuning, specifically using state of the art models that wouldn't typically be used for this kind of data (VGG for images and BERT for language). For each of those I converted my time series into images/language and I fine tuned the models on this data, which also yielded great results. While this latter approach might not be justified for this task (since it's extremely computationally costly), it proves that recent investments in image/language models can also be used for other kinds of data and time/resources shouldn't necessarily be directed towards building the best models for time series specifically. 
